Stored Program units:

user1 say writes a annponymous block, and submits The annonymous block will go to database.
user 2 wants the same code as user1, he can ask user 1 to give the code.
what happnes when many users who wants to run same code again & again. 
Either we have to depend on U1 to get the code.
----
Now say the user 1 has modified the piece of code say v2.
now others users wont get consistent results.
Now when ever the user modify the code, it is difficult to maintain the code.
Because all of them are running their individual copy.
---
How about storing the code inside the database.
User1 creats and stores the pl/sql program units with name p1.
other users just need to check p1 is there and can use it.
There will be a centralized copy. 
Since we are storing the code in db, they are called stored program units.
These are 3 types.
Procedure 
function 
package

All stored programs have a neem, 
can take param and return param
they can be stored in data dictionary
all users can call the sub programs.(depends on the security/access)

Advantages:
Easy maintanance
Security (if u have a privilege(execute) u can run else you cannot)
no security mechanism for a annonymous block
Performance: The pl/sql code is already parsed and stored in db. firstime when we create the procedure, it is parsed.
annoymous block every time parsed.
and there will be no network latency for the stored programs.perforamce of sp is much better than unnonymous block.
Integrity.

HOW to develop a STORED PROCEDURE:
------------------------------
we need a editor to write code.
using sql plus , you need to load the source code to database.
the db compiles the code. if successful compilation, you can see errors any by "SHOW ERRORS".
Once the compilation is succesful we will have a parsed version of code.
Users can esecute the parsed code.

SAMPLE
create proceduere helloworld as
x varchar2(20);
begin
x:="hello world';
dbms_output.put_line(x);
end;  -- imp semicolon after begin and / backslash at the end of the program.
/

SQL>








