PL/SQL reading from Youtube.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lvrwsv-Rj1o
Oresoft LWC channel
Reading the PLS series
This video is PLS-1.

Procedural constructs+ SQl statements =pl/sql propritary to Oracle.
PL/SQL is not ANSI.
contains variables, loops, if,while, and complicated DS support.

BLOCKS:
Declare
begin
exception
end
PL/SQL engine or compiler takes the PL/sql block and separate PL part is going to procedural statement executor and sql statements goes to sql statement executor in the oracle server. 
once the sql part is executed, the pl/sql engine integrates both and the program will be complete.

PL/sql engine can be in client side, then the pl parts executed in client and sql parts executed in server.
and other scenario is everything is happens in database. i.e pl and sql executors are in server.

PL/SQL: 
1. Ability to do real life scenario
2. tight integration with SQL - i.e do not need to translate sql to pl data types.
this saves both learnig and processing time.
And the type variables(ex pl varable -  abc emp%sal) the column type data type is assigned to abc in runtime.
3 Full portability i.e windows & linux the same program works on both , no modifications required. pgm runs on any platform without changes.
4. Access to predefined packages. - to increase developer productivity oracle have predefined packages. example : dbms_LOB gives all the pkgs and functions,procs required to write multimedia application. image and file processing
utl_http: makes lot of web based application development easy.
5. Tight security: you can write the stored programs inside database and you can have user access/controls availabl for other objects. You can use the oracle security management.
6.Better performance - the sql goes from client to server one by one(many stmts many times many trips)- i.e network time is going to be consumed.
the pl/sql block is transported once in the server, only one round trip.
7.rapid web application development. Oralce APEX- application express you can complete the web 2.0 application development less than 10 mins.(high sec, with logins) etc. Apex libraries. apex developemnt tool kit.

















