Visibility rules of package.

what kind of functions,procedures, constraints,variables we can do?
what we can do and cannot do with variables.

Summarize intutives in packages.

ex: we have a package xyz, with variables.

create package xyz as 
x number :=10; this is a global variable called pcakage variable.
function f1
proc p1
proc p2
end

Ii.e variables inside package specification are global variables(package variables);
then inside the package body we have defined another variable Y called private variable.
create package body xyz as
y number; -- here it is private variable. accessedinside package body.
function f1()
end f1;
here the function f1 is a public function.
and p2,p1 are public procedures.
procedure p1
z number; -- here the z is a local variable available only p1.
begin
end p1; 

x is accessible outside and inside package BODY.
y is accessible inside package body.
z is only accessible inside procedure p1.

procedure p3
end p3;
here procedure p3 is special procedure, this is not declaredin package spec.
procedure p3 is only accessible inside the package body xyz. cannot call outside xyz.

implementation of p1and p2 is must, because they are declared in spec.


We see now what is legal...
you can access x outside the package.
sql prompt, put a annonymous bloc,
sql> begin
d_o.p_l(xyz.x)
end;
this print x , becauase it is a global variable
you cannot do xyz.y here , this si a private variable.it is defined inside  package body.
this y can only be accessed inside any of functions f1,p1,p2 and p3.
then , sql prompt , you can execute xyz.f1(), because f1 is a public function.
you cannot do xyz.p3 because p3 is a private procedure and this p3 is only accessible inside procedure body.
this si very intutive.(easy to understand).

This specifically leads us a very interesting thing about hiding the code.
Lets say we have p3 is very imp, and confidential. what you can do is create it as a private function
and create a wrapper function or procedure from which you call p3 procedure.
Another use case is p1,p3 might change, then create them as private functions , then call from some other public fucntion.
because these are(p1,p2,f1) the functions / procedures you are going to expose to outside world.
The no of parameters/data types cannotbe chaged. once they are made, they are fixed, i donot waht to chage them.
however func/procedures which are dynamic , changes put them as a private and create a wrapper function to the outside worlld.
this si the very imp advantage.

Another usecase:

Lets say 


